Language code: en-gb
This is a story from the Panchatantra tales, a collection of Indian fables from the 3rd Century BCE. These stories were originally written in Sanskrit. This tale has been sligthly modified in length and content for digital rendition. One day, during a severe drought, a jackal was roaming in the forest in search of food. He felt hungry and feeble. " There are hardly any animals left to eat in this forest," the jackal thought. Just then he sighted the canopy of a large banyan tree. An idea occured to him. " There are always a lot of sparrows around banyan trees, maybe I can catch one unawares. It's not much but it will sustain me till the next day." So the weary jackal decided to make his way towards the banyan tree.
As the jackal drew nearer to the tree he heard a sound, faint at first, but then louder. [ Drum beat sound here ]. The jackal stopped and listened. He had never heard anything like it before and he was paralyzed with fear. " It seems as if there is some big creature out there, I better not go any further." So the jackal turned around, but the hollow in his stomach made him pause for thought. " If I don't eat soon I will die anyway. Perhaps I should investigate this sound, albeit cautiously."
The jackal approached the banyan tree slowly, hiding behind the thick foliage. Suddenly the shrubbery cleared and the jackal found himself in plain sight of the tree. When he saw what was causing the sound he burst out laughing. There was a war drum lying beneath the tree, and every time the tree's branch swung in the breeze it was hitting the drum, emitting the onerous sound. " The king's army must have paed by," the jackal thought. Just then a pleasant aroma reached the jackal nostrils. He sniffed, " Seems like they left behind food too." The jackal walked to the drum and found a pile of cooked food lying next to it. He sat down with relish to devour it, laughing at his, now absurd, past fears. Moral of the story: fear of the unknown is irrational.  s
